Practical Exercise - Walkthrough
The first step is implementing the two Input Dialogue activities to prompt the user for the text and title of the file.
Find and add two Input Dialog activities into the main sequence

For the first one:

Enter ‘Input Text’ as the title of the prompt.

Enter ‘Enter notepad text:’ as the label.

Create a string or generic variable called text and enter it as the output parameter.

For the second one:

Enter ‘Input Title’ as the title of the prompt

Enter ‘Enter notepad title:’ as the label.

Create a string or generic variable called title and enter it as the output parameter.
 

This is how the workflow should look like:


The rest of the automation can be easily done using the built-in recording tool.

Open an instance of Notepad.exe.

In the Design tab, select Recording > Desktop.

Desktop recording is chosen as it is the most suitable for recording multiple actions in desktop applications.

Click Start App and click on the Notepad.exe instance you opened.

Click Automatic Recorder - You are now in recording mode.

Click the editable panel in Notepad.

Type text and press enter to record it.

Click on Format. You will see a pop up message about using an anchor. Check the box that says “Do not show again during this recording session” and Click No.
In the Format menu, click Font. The Font window is displayed.

In the Font style list box, click Bold.

In Size list box, click 16.

Click OK.

In the File menu, click Save As. The Save As window is displayed.

In the File Name text box, type in ‘title’ and press Enter to record it.

Click the ‘Save’ button.

Press the Esc key to exit the automatic recorder.

Click on the Save & Exit button.

Navigate inside the recorded sequence in Studio and replace the ‘text’ string with the text variable and the ‘title’ string with the title variable:

In the Type Into activity right after Open Notepad.exe.

In the Type Into activity, inside the Attach to Save as Dialog.


When compressed, this is how the automation should look like. Take note of how the recording tool drastically simplifies the otherwise complex process of automating Notepad.

